seo doesn't have to be hard there are
simple ways to grow your traffic hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
going to break down
10 easy seo ideas that'll blow up your
traffic in 2021
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
number one combine pages around the same
topics here's what people don't know
if you have two pages that are on link
building and they cover pretty much the
same exact thing
google won't know which page to rank
sometimes if you're lucky you can get
both of them to rank but in many cases
they'll go back and forth it confuses
google so you're better off doing this
combining the pages combining the
content having one more detailed page
and then you should get higher rankings
now when you combine the pages you want
to pick the stronger one the one that's
ranking better the one that has more
authority take the other one with less
authority combine the content from the
less authority page to the one that's
more authority and then combine the one
the links from that page to the stronger
one and you do that with the 301
redirect if you don't know which page
has more authority you can just put in
your url into ubersuggest
and then in the backlinks report it'll
show you which one has more links and
authority
number two delete underperforming pages
it's better to have a handful of pages
that drives a ton of traffic than having
a site with a million pages that drive
very little to no traffic have you heard
of a company called about.com
you probably don't remember many more
because they're not really on the
internet anymore they took
one big website with millions of pages
and crushed it down into a lot of
smaller sites that were niche focused
and then they deleted hundreds and
thousands of pages of articles
why was that a lot of the articles
sucked they weren't detailed they
weren't getting any traffic no one cared
about them some of them were old or
outdated some were press releases some
of them were thin content
some of them are about topics that don't
exist anymore like for example no one
really cares to read about myspace
anymore because that social network is
dead right if a business is crushed no
one really wants to research it anymore
so if you only have pages that are
thorough they're great they're amazing
and people want to read about them then
what you're doing is taking all the
juice all the authority in your website
and directing them to the pages people
want to read about and it helps them
rank better
which is the experience that about.com
got when they crushed that site and
turned into a handful of smaller sites
that were focused on a specific topic
number three
search for the keywords that you're
trying to rank for or already rank for
on google look at the google ads if you
look at the google ads that'll give you
ideas for your title tags see people
used to believe that if you want to rank
at the top it's all about putting
keywords in your title tag and your meta
description but it's not
because if your title tag just says
seo learn seo seo beginners guy
seo today and that was your title tag
versus
the beginner's guide to seo learn seo in
five minutes the second title is more
appealing even though it may not have as
many keywords
in theory
what will happen is because it's more
appealing it'll get more clicks it tells
google hey people prefer this more so it
should rank higher and the google ads
will give you a sense because google ads
they don't just rank the listing at the
top that pays the most it's a formula
based on quality score based on you know
how much are they paying what's a click
volume because remember google only
makes money if people click so if you're
willing to pay ten dollars and i'm
paying five dollars but six times more
people are going to click on my listing
for the ad
google will put mine higher than yours
even though i'm paying less because it
makes google more money overall so look
at the google ads for title ideas which
you can then take for your organic
results
number four create infographics from
articles that have high social share
accounts so you can use ubersuggest it
has a content ideas report anytime you
put a keyword into ubercs it tells you
hey here's all the traffic for this
keyword but in the left-hand navigation
there's this content ideas report if you
click on that it'll tell you all the
blog posts around the web that are
probably based on social shares search
traffic backlinks look at the most
popular ones use that data to create
infographics and you don't have to end
up paying for them from scratch you can
use tools like canva to create one of
those infographics for pennies on the
dollar and what i like doing is i reach
out to all the people that link to the
article which uber said as content ideas
report shows you
and hit them up and be like hey i
noticed that you linked to this article
by tim
i actually turned that content into
infographic which makes it easier for
your audience to understand so feel free
and share it and link to it or even
embed it within your article if you
would like
number five create video content on your
top performing content pieces
look
yes google is the most popular search
engine but what most people don't know
is youtube is the second most popular
search engine so take your best
performing articles and create videos
like i'm doing here and pop them up on
youtube and it's the same strategy make
sure you put the keywords in the title
have appealing titles have amazing
thumbnails not boring ones they're like
but more so energetic ones are like ah
because if you do that you'll get more
clicks and then they'll start doing
better so make sure you create videos on
all your most popular piece of content
try to keep your videos around the 10
minute mark could be a little bit less
could be more i would try to avoid short
videos that are three four five minutes
long but as long as you're longer than
that typically you'll do well on youtube
especially if people are searching for
those topics you're getting tons of seo
traffic from it
number six send link juice to pages that
are sitting on page two or three of the
serps so on uber says you can track your
rankings
and it'll show you for your website what
keywords you're ranking for what page
you are in what position look at all the
ones that are on page 2 and page 3 right
positions 11 through 20 or 11 through 30
and what i want you to do is see if you
can link to those pages from other
relevant pages within your site that's
called internal linking so for example
if i have a guide on seo and i talk
about link building but i don't go
really in depth about link building i
may internally link to the article on
link building to help it boost the
rankings of that page on
link building which then helps me rank
higher especially if that page on link
building was on the top of page two
maybe it'll push it to page one
number seven create best related
articles here's what i mean by best
related articles anytime you do a search
for like toaster ovens or tools or seo
tools or you know credit cards you'll
always see like the best 10 credit cards
the best 10 toast drivers the best 10
toaster tools the best 47 seo tools and
the list goes on and on and what i found
is people love best related articles as
long as you're genuine if you have a
best related article and you just put
yours at the top that's not that genuine
but if it really is authentic you'll do
better in the long run
number eight implement amp pages so amp
is a form of accelerated mobile pages
and what it does is it just makes your
content load faster for mobile devices
i've implemented amp on my site and what
i've found is in the united states in
certain regions it doesn't really do
much for my traffic but in regions like
brazil where i have my content
translated i found that adding amp
helped me get more traffic
number nine use structured markup this
will help increase your chances of
getting served snippets you know
whenever you search for something and
then you see a little blurb at the top
and google's just pulling from it that's
the example of serp snippets
it's the easiest way to also boost your
click-through rate because sometimes you
have star ratings in there things like
that make people want to click through
unless the star ratings are really
terrible
number 10 leverage backlink
opportunities on uber says so when you
go to uber says and you put in your url
and you go to the backlink section and
the left hand navigation you'll see a
backlink opportunity this shows you
all the links that you should be going
after and the way the report works is
you put in two or three of your
competitors and then your url and it'll
show you all the people that are linked
to your competitors but not linking to
you because if someone's willing to link
to three four of your competitors the
chances are if you hit them up they'll
be willing to link to you as well versus
trying to hit up all these sites that
don't link to any of your competitors
and when you hit those people up they're
going to be like hey why do i want to
link to you but again if someone links
to three for your competitors the
chances are they'll link to you and this
uber says backlinks opportunity report
shows you all the opportunities for you
to easily get links
now if you need help with your seo check
out my ad agency np digital if you have
a question leave a comment below if you
enjoy the video like it share it tell
the people about